In this project I hope to determine what NFL players are “missing” from the Hall of Fame by building and analyzing a K-Nearest Neighbors clustering model that compares players of the same position to see which players have Hall of Fame caliber statistics. There is no higher award in the National Football League than the Hall of Fame.  Every year a 50 person committee selects 4-9 players to induct into this storied association, and every year great uproar follows as hometown fans across the nation feel that their beloved quarterback or star receiver has been robbed of this great honor. 
I am using career stat information on quarterbacks, wide receivers, running backs, linebackers, tight ends, defensive backs, and defensive from Sports Reference to build individual clustering models for the different positions.  The datasets I am using contain career stats such as whether or not a player is a Hall of Famer and the number of Super Bowl Championships or First Team All Pro Selections a player has.  Depending on the players’ position, these files also have stats like interceptions, touchdowns, sacks, and completions.  My clustering model will classify players as being in the Hall of Fame or not in the Hall of Fame, and I plan on interpreting these classifications as whether or not a player should be in the Hall of Fame or will be in the Hall of Fame (given 5 year retirement qualification) when analyzing the results.  I will validate the efficacy of my clustering model by analyzing its performance on training data to see how accurately it predicts whether or not a player is in the Hall of Fame and specifically evaluating its specificity and sensitivity.  I am also interested in testing the model on the top prospects for the 2024 NFL Hall of Fame Induction that happened on Super Bowl Saturday to see how effectively it can predict who the most recent Hall of Fame inductees were.  I downloaded the data before the 2024 Super Bowl weekend, so it will not include information on the 2024 inductees (which are selected on the Saturday before the Superbowl) even though this project is due after the Superbowl.  All in all, I hope to evaluate NFL career stats to determine players that should be in the Hall of Fame and to predict the 2024 Hall of Fame inductees.
